{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Arial;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green0\blue0;}
\viewkind4\uc1\pard\cf1\f0\fs32 K'Luth Primer\cf0\f1\fs20\par
\par
\cf1\f0\fs24 Part 1\cf0\f1\fs20\par
\par
\cf1\f0\fs24 - Biology -\par
\cf0\f1\fs20\par
The biology of the K'Luth is a curious thing.  Of all the life forms we have encountered, they are the only ones that defy easy classification.  We have identified two sub-species of K'Luth.  One is the Warrior Caste, and the other is the Artisen Caste.  The Warrior Caste seems to be specific to personal combat duties, while the Artisen Caste is found in all roles in K'Luth society, including combat.  Thusly the Artisen Caste greatly outnumbers the Warrior Caste.  Due to the presense of two distinct Castes,  the chimera qualities of their biology, and the religeous history of the K'Luth, our scientists believe that at some point in thier past they engineered themselves to their current state.\par
\par
\par
Basic design\par
\par
While from outward appearance some indentify them as insectoid, on closer inspection this is found to be patently false.  The basic physical configuration of the K'Luth is actually remarkably similar to a human in it's overall proportions and sectioning.  They possess the basic head, torso, and abdomen, as well as arms and legs.  They have four arms, each with four fingers.  Two of these didgits oppose the others, in effect giving them two "thumbs" on each hand.  Their legs posses some vestige of having been grasping limbs in their past evolution, though this seems to have changed in the recent evolutionary cycle to allow them to be bi-pedal life forms with locomotion similar to humans.  The design of their arms and legs lends some credence to them having evolved from tree dwelling stock at some point, though this cannot be verified without some information on their homeworld.  In the Warrior Caste, the upper armse are specialized into being clawed melee weapons, and have no ability to manipulate objects with any skill.  The Warrior Caste is also larger, and signifigantly more massive than the Artisen Caste.\par
\par
\par
Specifics\par
\par
As mentioned before, the K'Luth defy classification in our traditional terms.  While they posses chitinous exoskeleton over some parts of their bodies, they also have a fully developed endoskeleton.  This endoskeleton is roughly the same density as a human, with similar ability to bear weight and stress.  This system allows them to have a slightly higher chance of sustaning less damage than a human from low technology weapons.  The Warrior Caste has much more chitin on it's surface, with a much higher density to it.  Their endoskeleton is also denser, with reinforced joint areas.  This allows it to suffer conciderable ammounts of damage.  Modern weapons, however, even the field conciderably.\par
\par
Their entire surface is covered with a scaly hide, even over the chitinous plates.  This hide varies from large, rough scales to very fine, smooth scaling, depending on the surface that is covered.  The scales form many varried patterns and colors on the K'Luth, such that no two look precisely the same.  Additionally, the coloration is capable of rapid shifts of remarkable degree.  This seems to fulfill the need for expression to be displayed visually.  The skin surface is tough, but quite sensitive to touch, particularly on the pads of the hands.  The scale patterns also seem to have some barring on their social structure, indentifying both the individual, and the group it belongs to.\par
\par
The muscular system is fully developed, allowing for similar capacities in strength and speed to a Human.  Thier capacity for endurance is remarkable, allowing them to bare burdens about one and a quarter times as long as a human could.  Tendon and ligament connections are similar in strength and ability to a human as well.  The Warrior Caste's muscular system is denser and stronger than normal when compaired to a Human or Artisen.  This does, however, seem to cost them some speed in their reflexes.\par
\par
While the information presented so far might indicate a reptilian creature, this is not the case.  Nowhere is this more appearant than in the internal organ system of the K'Luth.  The typical core temperature seems to be slightly higher than a human, at about 38 degrees.  They also posses a four chambered heart, like a mammel.  The digestive system is specialized primarily in matabolising meat.  This, coupled with their mandible system, indicates that they are almost exclusivly preditory.  While their digestive system is capable of breaking down raw materials, cooked food is assimilated more easily and efficiently.  Thier lungs take up more space than a Human's, but have similar overally capacity.  Additionally, they seem to be able to process air more efficiently if it is slightly denser than one atmosphere, with a slightly higher level of carbon-dioxide.  Our native atmospheric composition is not dangerous to them, and it is theorized that thiers would pose no danger to us.\par
\par
The ablility for the K'Luth to resist toxins and disease is remarkable.  While they are suseptable to artificial compounds like any other life form, biologically derived chemicalls seem to have absolutly no effect on them.  Additionally, they have no history of plauge in thier species.  Indeed, we have yet to find any record of a K'luth that has had a cold.\par
\par
Reproduction and Life Span\par
\par
K'Luth are sexed beings, having both male and female.  Identifying the between the two is a major challange for non-K'Luth.  There are no known outward signs that can help a non-K'Luth determine the gender of a K'Luth.  Fertilization is done internally, with the female laying an egg approximatly one week later.  This egg takes about eight months to hatch into a young K'Luth.  The egg needs to be maintained at a warm temperature, with alot of sunlight.  K'Luth take about 20 standard years to reach maturity after hatching.  There is no solid evidence, even amung the K'Luth, as to their natural life span.  Measured scientific estimates place it at about 60-80 years.  However, the average age at which a K'Luth dies is between 40-50.  Many times they are much younger.  This is primarily due to thier culture.  Warrior and Artisen Caste are both born in the same manner.  However, the Warrior Caste are completely neutral in their sexual organs.  Curiously, the Warrior Caste members still posses affactations of a gender.  They also identify themselves with being male or female, even though they lack all means of reproduction.  Somehow, the K'Luth are able to determin whether their offspring will be of the Warrior or Artisen caste, though they have no controll over the gender.\par
\par
\par
Senses\par
\par
K'Luth possess excellent senses of touch, similer in sensitivity to a Human.  Their sense of taste and smell are also very similar to ours as well.  Hearing in the K'Luth seems to be less sensitive than in Humans, with a particular slacking off in the upper frequency ranges.  \par
\par
Eyesight is unique.  Artisen eyesight is excellent at less than 5 meters.  Indeed, it far surpasses Human eyesight at up-close work, allowing them to see things that would be microscopic to a Human.  Also, they can see in a broader spectrum of colors than a human, with a great deal more precision in determining between colors.  Their eyesight drops in ability after about 100 meters, giving them an almost myopic sight accuity.  \par
\par
Warrior Caste, conversly, have remarkable eyesight at range, and can see far beyond Humans with accuracy and detail.  They also have excellent low-light vision, letting them see in very dark environments.  They have little ablility to see beyond the most basic of colors, and their sight ability at close range is poor.  This lack of color actually lets them discern camoflage patterns much easier than a Human can, so don't be fooled into thinking you can easily hide from them.\par
\par
\par
Mentation\par
\par
The K'Luth skull is a reinforced case.  Rather like a Human skull, it houses the single most important organ in the K'luth body.  The K'Luth mind is a facinating construct.  It has two major halves, like a human.  Also, it has reasoning lobes in the fore with motor located at the lower rear near the brain stem.  However, it also has two additional lobes.  These are located to the lower rear of the brain, one on each side of the head.\par
\par
The mental capacity of an Artisen is the equal to a Human in every way.  They are capable of at least the same level of abstract reasoning, creative thinking, analytical thought, and predictive conjugation.  Do not be fooled into thinking that these are unintellegent beasts.  The Warrior Caste seem to have a reduced capacity for thought.  While they are not stupid by any means, they seem to posses the mental maturity of a 10 year old human.  An agressive, violent 10 year old.  This actually lends them to be instinctively dependant on the Artisen Caste for leadership.  It is because of this that we think that this reduced capacity in the Warrior Caste may actually be intentional.\par
\par
\par
Communication\par
\par
This was the most difficult of all to unravel.  While we were able to determine how the K'Luth project visual signals by adjusting their skin patterns and colors, we couldn't decifer their spoken language.  It seemed to be nothing more than a series of grunts and roars, with no construction or pattern to it.  The Deconstruction Department actually provided the key to understanding how the K'Luth communicate, while trying to unravel the mysteries of some of the K'Luth technology.\par
\par
The K'Luth, it seems, are psionicly active.  Later interviews with K'Luth prisoners have verified this theory, and given us a great deal of information on how this functions.\par
\par
Let us separate some of the fact from the fiction on how the communication works.  Firstly, think of this like a radio.  In order to recieve psionic communication, you must also be able to send it.  The two come hand in hand, and cannot be separated.  Secondly, you always transmit your signal.  It cannot be turned off.  Whatever thoughts are formed in your head are transmitted.  Thirdly, this is not a narrow beam transmission.  Everyone in the area who is psionically active is recieveing your transmissions, as well as transmitting their own.  Finally, only formed thoughts are disernable, emotion is like static.  Emotion is not formed and directed, and so is a small chaotic burst of signal.  Formed thoughts are stronger than the static from emotions, and so can be picked out with relative ease.  Like hearing a human voice over the background sound of a busy street.  The range on this communication seems to be around 300 meters.  At that range it is a concerted effort for a K'Luth to understand a thought that is "shouted".  This form of communication is instantanious to all who can hear it.  \par
\par
K'Luth are tought at a young age how to discern thoughts from static and how to form them themselves.  Fortunatly for us, they cannot "read minds", "see the future", or even hear a Human's thoughts or emotions.  We know that the two lower rear lobes of their brains are what allows them to manifest thier abilities.  These specialized areas work continually at filtering and priotizing the thoughts of the K'Luth nearby.  If a Human were capable of this form of communication, it would probably damage their brains in short order.  There is one curiosity here.  According to the K'Luth, they arn't the only thing that transmits in this way.  They also claim that stars put off static the same as emotions.  Some amung them even claim that they can hear thoughts from the stars themselves.  It is because of this that we feel that insanity is not a plauge on Humanity alone.\par
\par
Some members of the Artisen Caste claim to be able to "feel" the DNA structure of other life formes with thier powers.  They also claim to be able to manipulate it using these powers.  This has been neither confirmed, nor discounted.  However, if thier assertations are correct, this process takes many hours of intense effort on the shaper's part.\par
}
 